We don't have a whole lot happening within our game quite yet.
We've got a start button start button disappears and we run a block of code in the function called Make
item let's set up some more additional functionality so we want to get the boundary of our main container.
So Gary in that container object we're gonna use get bounding client rectangle.
This is a method that gives you the parameters of an element.
And if I plates into the console you're going to see that whenever we hit start we get the bounding
client rectangle.
So this is the full space that we have to work with.
We've got the bottom the height the left the right the top and the width.
So this is that whole gameplay area.
Next we need to create an element and create generically randomly create an element and position that
somewhere on the page.
So using document element create element creating a div and then for this day we're going to set all
of its properties dynamically with JavaScript So adding in to that div updating its style attributes
we can set a position of absolute.
So that will allow us to position that element and a console log it out so that we can see the element
as we're constructing it.
So there we've got our elements.
We've got a style of position absolute and that means that we need to also position it.
So we need to do a left position and this can be math random and the random value when we take baths
random we need to multiply by the number that we want to randomize it by.
And we already have some values that we can utilize here that are available within our boundary object.
So taking that boundary with plus picks that will give us a position a left position that we can use
and then also taking boundary height.
This is all coming from that boundary object that we're showing here on the right hand side.
And this can be boundary type.
So that will set the vertical position.
We're setting the horizontal position and we also need to set some random width and height for that.
So doing a style and width so we're generating all of the properties that attributes the style attributes
that are available for this element dynamically within this function.
So anywhere from ten so we'll start it out at 40 and we'll have random eyes of ten.
So it could be anywhere from 40 to 50 white and we'll do the same four.
So this could be as well anywhere from 40 to 50 white.
So the height and the width will change position of left and right will change also.
Let's set up a border radius to it.
So again using that style value we can set border radius.
We've got a lot of options within JavaScript in order to set the same thing that you would expect to
see when you are creating that within your CSF as well we can also set our cursor so the cursor value
so setting that to a pointer it's probably is easier to do it and see assess.
But of course this is a javascript course.
So we want to really focus on javascript.
Another one that we want to do is maybe do a background color.
So this is expecting a hex value.
So make sure that we put the hash in front and we're going to generate a random hex value number.
So doing math random and then to string and base 16.
And then we're going to substring that minus thing six.
So that will return back a hex value.
So show you how that works within the console.
So if we take math random we get decimal zero dustbowl and a whole bunch of digits after that if I take
math random and if I do two string C that turns it into a string and I can change the base for the string
so if I do base 16 it's going to use it's going to create a hex value for the string.
And so now all we need to do is chop off.
We only need the last six characters and that's where we can utilize substring.
So applying one more method to there and that's the substring and we want to take back the last six
which effectively generates a random hex value and all we need to do is add in the hash.
And that's going to give us a random background color.
So that's how that formula works.
That's a really effective way to generate a random color within one line of code.
Also adding in a border so a border we can set it up just as we would with our regular CSI us where
we can set border solid black to make sure we get all of those parameters in there and also want to
track in when the start time is.
So whenever our element gets created one of a value for that.
And then lastly let's add it to the visible area.
So using container append child we can append that div to the main container elements so that we'll
make it visible on the page.
So let's refresh and start game and then there we've got our element showing up and popping up.
So coming up next we need to make this clickable so that we can track how long it takes the user to
click the element as it shows up.
So that's coming up next.
So go ahead and practice applying style properties to your element that you've just created using create
element add in some objects to it and also take a look at using math random because it gives you the
ability to randomize some of these values and make them different all the time.
So now we can see that these are elements that are popping up are always going to look different.
And you can play around with some of these numbers to make them bigger or smaller to really see what
different effects you can get out of the bathroom.
So coming up next we're going to add interaction to that element.